- [Instructor] We've deployed multiple Kubernetes resources
using multiple manifest files.
We've also deployed multiple Kubernetes resources
using a single manifest file.
Let's see how we can deploy multiple Kubernetes resources
using a single Helm chart.
The first command for that is
to install the Kubernetes Helm CLI.
This command will download the latest Helm CLI
and install it on your machine.
If you already have a prior version of Helm CLI,
then you can of course use GRU upgrade Kubernetes Helm
and that will upgrade to the latest version of Helm CLI.
Let's see what version of Helm it is.
As you see, it says 2.12.1 and that's for the client.
On the server side, it says could not find tiller
because so far we have not initialized our cluster
or the Kubernetes cluster with Helm.
Let's make sure our context is set correctly
so kubectl config get-contexts.
As we have been using in this course,
docker-for-desktop is the right context for us
so now, at this point of time,
I can just say helm init
and this will initialize my Kubernetes cluster with Tiller.
So, essentially, it'll install Tiller
as a component in my Kubernetes cluster.
Now how do we verify that?
I can say, kubectl get pods and it installs Tiller
in the kube-system name space.
So I can specify the kube-system name space here
and here we can see, Tiller is running,
one out of one and in a running state.
So that's good for us.
Now, we need to deploy our Helm chart
as an application to the Kubernetes cluster.
We'll go to manifests charts directory.
Our charts are all existing in this location.
So for now, we're going to look at myapp.
This is a directory where our Helm chart exists.
This is a chart that we explain
in the previous section, as well,
so we're not going to go through the explanation,
but we'll go ahead and now deploy our application.
So helm install is the command that we're going to use.
Give this application a name
and then we will give the top level directory,
where my Helm chart is installed.
We give this command and it creates all my resources.
So deployment, pod, and service
and everything that we wanted to create over here.
Now, with a single command,
we have deployed all the resources.
Let's see how we can see all of those resources
using a single command as well.
So we say, kubectl get service, deployment, and pod.
And it shows that our greeting service is created.
So is deployment and so is pod.
Now let me show you a command
on how we can access the service very easily.
We have been using curl http://localhost:8080/hello.
This is our usual way to access the application
and as expected, we get the response Hello.
Now, this time, our same Java application
packages a docker container deployed as a Helm chart
in the Kubernetes cluster.
Let me show you another command
by which you can easily access this.
So for that, we're going to go to browser
and copy a command.
Here's the command that we're going to copy
and we will paste it here.
Now, what we're doing here is,
we're saying curl http and then,
in the dollar here, we're saying kubectl,
get me the service greeting, use the jsonpath
and in the jsonpath, essentially get me
status load balancer ingress and the host name,
which is going to be local host for us
and then I say colon 8080 slash hello
and this returns the exact same response to us.
Now the advantage of this particular command is
this would work across your different environment,
whether it's your Cloud, whether it's your desktop,
whether it's your home frame,
and this is the universal command
that will work all across.
So, finally, let's go ahead and see
how we can delete our application.
So, in order to delete all the resources,
we got to say purge and give the application name,
and with one single command, once again,
my entire application is now deleted.
Now, if I tried to look through
all the resources once again,
of course, none of them exist anymore.